docs: update pricing for per-operation fees (#820)
FilOzone/synapse-sdk: docs/src/content/docs/developer-guides/storage/storage-costs.mdx

## Pricing Components

Pricing has two recurring rates and a set of small one-time fees.

### Recurring rates

| Component | Cost | Notes |
| -------------- | ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| **Storage** | $2.50/TiB/month per copy | Charged only while pieces exist. Empty data sets are free. |

> | **Proving Service** | $0.024/data set/month | Flat per-data-set fee, added on top of the storage rate. |

Reviewer: similar change/nuance is needed here (similar to my other doc comment regarding "free")

Author: Applied 74533f9

| **CDN egress** | up to $14/TiB (≈ $0.014/GiB) downloaded | Optional, via Filecoin Beam. About half this when served from cache. |

:::note[Be aware]
"Month" means **30 days** here (86,400 epochs), not a calendar month.
:::

> The monthly rate for an active data set is `(bytes / TiB) × $2.50 + $0.024`. There is no minimum floor: a data set with no pieces costs nothing, and the rate activates when the first piece is added.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The monthly rate for an active data set is `(bytes / TiB) × $2.50 + $0.024`. There is no minimum floor: a data set with no pieces has no recurring cost, and the rate activates when the first piece is added.
```

Author: Applied 74533f9

### One-time fees

Each on-chain operation pays a small fee to the storage provider, covering the gas that provider spends on your behalf:

| Operation | Fee |
| -------------- | ------------------ |
| **Create data set** | $0.025 |
| **Add pieces** | $0.0005 + $0.0003 per piece |
| **Schedule piece removals** | $0.002 per call |
| **Terminate service** | $0.00112 (user-initiated only) |

These are fractions of a cent. Think of them like gas: negligible for normal use, only adding up at very high operation volumes. They are paid from a small lockup reserve (~$0.10) held while the data set is active, not billed separately on every call. See [How the fees and lockup work](#how-the-fees-and-lockup-work) below.

:::note[CDN setup]

> Enabling CDN adds two refundable lockups on first use: ~0.7 USDFC for egress credits and ~0.3 USDFC for cache-miss credits. Reusing an existing CDN data set incurs no new setup. These are lockups, not fees, and are returned when the rail is finalised.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling CDN adds two refundable lockups on first use: ~0.7 USDFC for egress credits and ~0.3 USDFC for cache-miss credits. Reusing an existing CDN data set incurs no new setup. These are lockups, not fees, and are returned when the rail is finalised if unused.
```

Author: Applied. 8349a07

// Storage cost per month: 0.0953 TiB × $2.50 ≈ $0.238/month
const storageCostPerMonth = storageTiB * STORAGE_PRICE_PER_TIB_PER_MONTH;

// Egress cost per month (worst case, all cache misses): 0.0953 TiB × $14 ≈ $1.334/month
const egressCostPerMonth = egressTiB * CDN_EGRESS_PRICE_PER_TIB;

// Total cost per month: $0.238 + $0.024 proving + $1.334 egress ≈ $1.596/month
const totalCostPerMonth = storageCostPerMonth + PROVING_FEE_PER_MONTH + egressCostPerMonth;

// Total cost for 24 months: $1.596/month × 24 ≈ $38.31
const totalCostFor24Months = totalCostPerMonth * 24;
```

| Cost Component | Per Month | 24 Months |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- |
| Storage | ≈ 0.238 USDFC | ≈ 5.71 USDFC |
| Proving Service | ≈ 0.024 USDFC | ≈ 0.576 USDFC |
| CDN Egress | ≈ 1.334 USDFC | ≈ 32.016 USDFC |
| **Total** | **≈ 1.596 USDFC** | **≈ 38.31 USDFC** |

> Egress here is the worst case where every byte is a cache miss. When content is served from the Filecoin Beam cache, egress is roughly half this.

Reviewer: Filecoin Beam / FilCDN language needs clarified.. I thought we were moving to FilCDN but i'm not confident.

Reviewer 2: confirmed above in a comment Filecoin Beam is the correct branding

## How the fees and lockup work

Most developers can stop at the tables above. This section explains the mechanics behind the per-operation fees and the lockup reserve for anyone who needs the detail.

**The proving fee is additive, not a floor.** Earlier pricing used a single monthly minimum. The rate is now `(bytes / TiB) × $2.50 + $0.024`, so storage scales with size and the proving fee is a flat addition per data set. A data set with no pieces pays nothing until the first piece is added.

**Add-pieces pricing scales with batch size.** Each `addPieces` call costs `$0.0005 + $0.0003 × N`, where `N` is the number of pieces in the batch. The base fee is shared across the batch, so adding many pieces in one call is cheaper per piece than adding them one at a time. When estimating the cost of a single piece, assume the single-piece price (`$0.0008`); batching only makes it cheaper.

> **Fees are paid from a small lockup reserve, not billed per call.** When a data set is created, ~$0.10 of USDFC is locked as a lifecycle reserve on the data set's payment rail. One-time fees are drawn from this reserve as operations happen, and the reserve is topped back up toward its target as it is drawn down. You see ~$0.10 of additional locked USDFC while the data set is active. It is refunded when the rail is finalised.

Reviewer: comparison language to old structure could likely be removed and added to a versioning/changelog doc?

Author: Removed. 8012de0 

Will create a follow up PR with an improved change log
